README.md, before:

Implement import from...

- Study Stack
  - https://www.studystack.com/
  - Can export with custom term-delimeters and newlines for row-delimeters
- Quizlet
  - https://quizlet.com/
  - Can export with custom term & row delimiters
- Omnisets
  - https://www.omnisets.com/
  - not sure

TODO NOW:

- make dashboard's delete button NOT reload, reset some other way
- clean up code
  - make sure eventListners are not created multiple times
  - decide order of script tags
- homepage/index.html
  - add "its effective" section explaining how quizfreelys thingies are "backed by science"
    - this section would be under "its open source" and before the wave-y section
  - add "the code is public, but your data isn't" section explaining stuff like "ur data isnt used for marketing or sold to ppl" and "the privacy policy is easy to read" and link to the privacy policy
  - add links/buttons to the grid paragraph section thingies
    - like under open source there would be view source code and under its free there would be informatino about why accounts etc
- then after that:
  - seperate-from-open-screen/fullscreen flashcards
  - docs & help menu
  - confirmation for deleting stuff

TODO

- **_create VS make in source code_**
- **_studyset title vs studyset name in source code_**
- **camelCase** it
- documentation & help menu
- code quality
  - implement [designsys/docs](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/)
  - move `<script>...` tags into js files & make js consistent
  - consistent-ify use of `document.getElement...` vs `ui.elements.abc...`
- implement [designsys/docs/styleguide.md#html-ids](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/styleguide.md#html-ids)
- implement [designsys/docs/wording.md#grammar-and-capitalization](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/wording.md#grammar-and-capitalization)

TODO EXTRA

- make sure tab works on file inputs (designsys)
- make fancy betterthantab keyboard shortcut system (designsys)
- autofil/autocomplete colors (designsys)
- enter key to focus next form element (designsys)
  - and to submit signin/signup when keyboard focus is on password input
- document when to use `i` vs `b` (designsys/styleguide)
- consistant image alt tag (+ designsys)
  - currently most are `<img ... alt="image" ...`

Commit message:

ability to test user flow in main

README.md, after:

# BEFORE MERGE
 - re-replace `main--quizfreelyehandev.netlify.app` with `quizfreely.ehan.dev` (search `redirectTo:`)

Implement import from...

- Study Stack
  - https://www.studystack.com/
  - Can export with custom term-delimeters and newlines for row-delimeters
- Quizlet
  - https://quizlet.com/
  - Can export with custom term & row delimiters
- Omnisets
  - https://www.omnisets.com/
  - not sure

TODO NOW:

- make dashboard's delete button NOT reload, reset some other way
- clean up code
  - make sure eventListners are not created multiple times
  - decide order of script tags
- homepage/index.html
  - add "its effective" section explaining how quizfreelys thingies are "backed by science"
    - this section would be under "its open source" and before the wave-y section
  - add "the code is public, but your data isn't" section explaining stuff like "ur data isnt used for marketing or sold to ppl" and "the privacy policy is easy to read" and link to the privacy policy
  - add links/buttons to the grid paragraph section thingies
    - like under open source there would be view source code and under its free there would be informatino about why accounts etc
- then after that:
  - seperate-from-open-screen/fullscreen flashcards
  - docs & help menu
  - confirmation for deleting stuff

TODO

- **_create VS make in source code_**
- **_studyset title vs studyset name in source code_**
- **camelCase** it
- documentation & help menu
- code quality
  - implement [designsys/docs](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/)
  - move `<script>...` tags into js files & make js consistent
  - consistent-ify use of `document.getElement...` vs `ui.elements.abc...`
- implement [designsys/docs/styleguide.md#html-ids](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/styleguide.md#html-ids)
- implement [designsys/docs/wording.md#grammar-and-capitalization](https://codeberg.org/ehanahamed/designsys/src/branch/main/docs/wording.md#grammar-and-capitalization)

TODO EXTRA

- make sure tab works on file inputs (designsys)
- make fancy betterthantab keyboard shortcut system (designsys)
- autofil/autocomplete colors (designsys)
- enter key to focus next form element (designsys)
  - and to submit signin/signup when keyboard focus is on password input
- document when to use `i` vs `b` (designsys/styleguide)
- consistant image alt tag (+ designsys)
  - currently most are `<img ... alt="image" ...`
