docs/dev/production/README.md, before:

# Production Setup - Dev/Contributor Docs

Right now, Quizfreely's website, https://quizfreely.com and api, https://api.quizfreely.com, run on the same server/droplet.

Important thingies:
- `/root/quizfreely/api/`
  - `.env`
  - `quizfreely-api.service`
- `/root/quizfreely/web/`
  - `.env`
  - `quizfreely-web.service`
- `/etc/caddy/Caddyfile`
- `/etc/systemd/system/`
  - `quizfreely-web.service`
  - `quizfreely-api.service`
  - `caddy.service`
- `/usr/bin/`
  - `caddy`
  - `node`
  - `npm`

Quizfreely's API (`/root/quizfreely/api/`, "quizfreely-api") runs on port `:8008`. See [web-setup.md](./web-setup.md)

Quizfreely's website (`/root/quizfreely/web/`, "quizfreely-web") runs on port `:8080`. See [api-setup.md](./api-setup.md)

Caddy lets quizfreely-web and quizfreely-api be accessed from https://quizfreely.com and https://api.quizfreely.com with valid https. See [caddy-setup.md](./caddy-setup.md)

## Droplet Specs

Right now our digitalocean droplet has:
- Debian 12 x64 (Linux)
- 1GB memory
- 1 AMD vCPU
- 25GB NVMe SSD storage

With those specs, while quizfreely-web, quizfreely-api, and caddy are all running and reciving traffic, we usually have:
- 1% or less cpu usage (usually less)
- 40% memory usage
- 8% disk usage

Stress-testing with hundreds of requests raises all of those by less than 1% (and 99% of those requests took less than 240ms to respond/load (that's faster than 1/4th of a second))

Commit message:

document database backups, update mismatched names in prod overview md, and link new db docs

docs/dev/production/README.md, after:

# Production Setup - Dev/Contributor Docs

Right now, Quizfreely's website, https://quizfreely.com and api, https://api.quizfreely.com, run on the same server/droplet.

Important thingies:
- `/root/quizfreely/api/`
  - `.env`
  - `quizfreely-api.service`
  - `quizfreely-db-setup.sql`
- `/root/quizfreely/web/`
  - `.env`
  - `quizfreely-web.service`
- `/etc/caddy/Caddyfile`
- `/etc/systemd/system/`
  - `quizfreely-web.service`
  - `quizfreely-api.service`
  - `caddy.service`
- `/usr/bin/`
  - `caddy`
  - `node`
  - `npm`

Quizfreely's website (`/root/quizfreely/web/`, "quizfreely-web") runs on port `:8080`. See [web-setup.md](./web-setup.md)

Quizfreely's API (`/root/quizfreely/api/`, "quizfreely-api") runs on port `:8008`. See [api-setup.md](./api-setup.md)

Caddy lets quizfreely-web and quizfreely-api be accessed from https://quizfreely.com and https://api.quizfreely.com with valid https. See [caddy-setup.md](./caddy-setup.md)

Quizfreely's API connects to Quizfreely's PostgreSQL database to store all our data. See [api-setup.md](./api-setup.md) to setup the database (and api). See [db.md](./db.md) to manage the database.

## Droplet Specs

Right now our digitalocean droplet has:
- Debian 12 x64 (Linux)
- 1GB memory
- 1 AMD vCPU
- 25GB NVMe SSD storage

With those specs, while quizfreely-web, quizfreely-api, and caddy are all running and reciving traffic, we usually have:
- 1% or less cpu usage (usually less)
- 40% memory usage
- 8% disk usage

Stress-testing with hundreds of requests raises all of those by less than 1% (and 99% of those requests took less than 240ms to respond/load (that's faster than 1/4th of a second))
